[David] Hello everyone. Welcome back to WordPress
Accessibility Day. My name is David Vogelpohl at WP
Engine and I'm proud to be your host for the
session: Much Ado About Captioning Videos for
WordPress and Beyond with Meryl K. Evans. Please
feel free to add your questions to the YouTube
chat feed and we'll answer those at the end of
the presentation. I'm honored to introduce Meryl
and her talk, Much Ado About Captioning Videos.
Born hearing free, Meryl's first encounter
with captions came in 1983 when she received a
closed caption decoder. Because she depends on
captions to follow the video, she has seen the best
and worst of captions. Fast forward decades later,
Meryl's digital marketing career has come in
handy in educating people about the benefits
of captioning videos and captioning them well.
When she started making videos she wanted to
caption them. As a self-employed professional she
worried about the investment to make that happen.
Through trial and error she figured
out an effective process for creating
awesome captions that led her to
create the 10 Rules of Great Captions.
And here to share that with you today, I'd like
to introduce Meryl K Evans.
[Meryl] Thank you, David.
Howdy, y'all. Before we start here are a [unintelligible].
First, there are a lot of visuals. If this is an
accessibility issue with anyone needing information or
clarification, please contact me. Second, I want to
quickly mention audio description also referred to
as video description in AD. A narrator provides
a description of key digital element in the video.
While I won't cover it, it is important to mention, because
it's an accessibility requirement. Thank you David for
bringing that to my attention. Third, thank you
captioners and sponsors. Captioners, may the force be
with you in captioning this accent.
I'm Meryl, with two syllables, and rhyme with pill not pull.
I am a native Texan who lives in Plano,
right next to Dallas. So I was born hearing free, aka
profoundly deaf. I am not capital D deaf, because
I am not part of the deaf community
and I don't know sign language.
To listen, I rely on the hearing in my bionic
ear, which is a lot cooler than saying Cochlear Implant,
aside from being a caption pusher, I am
a Digital Marketing Freelancer. This is what my
first caption decoder looked like. It was like
clunky thing that sat on top, on top of the TV.
Little did I know, it was going to change my life.
We'll cover the other reasons to caption besides
accessibility, because some don't think it's a
good enough reason. Crazy, right? But that's reality.
I see a lot of posts where people ask
if they should caption their video.
Unfortunately, captions don't just magically appear.
If only. Automatic craptions, don't count y'all.
Look at this auto, auto craption, I definitely
did not say that. So we'll dig into how captions work.
You have many options for captioning
your videos. We'll cover those. And finally,
great captions are more than just capturing
the audio. Why should you caption your video?
The number one answer is accessibility, of course.
That should be enough, right? Alas, it's not and
the second most popular reason is to help second
language learner. Many focused on these two reasons
and for some creators it's not enough to justify
their time and resources for captioning.
[David] All right, we're just trying to get the screen sharing going.
Okay, there we go. awesome. Yeah.
[Meryl] All right.Yeah. Sorry about that everybody. Technology right.
When you share the other reasons, it makes creators rethink
captioning. Only 6% of the world's population is deaf
or hard of hearing. Naturally, creators may think their audience doesn't include them, or was too smart to bother.
But they'll change their mind when you share that people who are deaf and hard of hearing are not the primary
users of captions. A survey has found 80% of those using captions are not deaf or hard of hearing.
That you reach more people with captions.
You want the caption, because it greatly increases
the chances of people watching more of your video.
Lately a lot of data has popped up that shows
more people turning off the sound especially
watching videos in public. But what about if
they're watching in private? A good number of them
still keep the sound off. My youngest is
a member of Gen Z, and he has ADHD. He does
well with multitasking. He'll be on his phone,
with Nintendo while watching a captioned video.
Many of his friends do the same thing regardless
if they have ADHD. It also helps those with
language processing disorders and other differences.
Some people, none of these differences say
they need captions because it helps them focus.
Besides, even hearing can be affected on a
temporary or situational basis. A cold and ear
infection can change a person's hearing. Think
you go to a noisy restaurant, bar and gym. Masks are
everywhere nowadays. A lot of people who can hear
that they have a hard time understanding people
talking with a mask on. What do Hulu, Netflix, Hover,
MIT and Pornhub have in common? They
have all been sued over the lack of captions.
Yes, you heard right. I said Pornhub. A
man sued Pornhub, because videos were not
captioned. He's probably one of those who reads
Playboy for the articles, right? Whatever floats your boat.
Contrary to what these companies may
think, it's not cheaper to deal with law suits
over fitting accessibility into the organization.
Caption users are passionate. They will speak
loudly and fully comprehend it can hurt
the company's reputation. That the
lack of captioning costs more than the law suit.
Captions also increase brand awareness.
Any opportunity to help people remember your
brand is a must do in those noisy rooms. And
last, but not least, when you close captions,
as opposed to open captions, caption can boost
SEO. Captions don't magically show up. They require
two things: the video, the text files, the caption.
Even if you use YouTube's automatic captions,
YouTube usually create a caption text file.
You can download it and use it elsewhere. The way
to add caption to a video is to create a text file
that goes with the video. The formats that
you and I will use most likely are SRT and
WebVTT. There are tons of formats. The captions are in
a text file that you can open in a text editor.
The magic happens in the time column that tells the
caption when to appear and disappear. When you
play the videos that uses the caption file is
called closed caption. Since this is a text file
search engine can read it .That's how you get
the benefit of SEO with closed captions.
You have many options for adding caption to a video. I
am sharing one example, so you can see the process.
This video shows you how to do it on YouTube,
since it's free and most everyone has an account.
[Video plays with captions]
[Clip within Video] Hey y'all. Meryl Evans here creating a short clip
to show you how to caption a video.
You can copy and paste this script. Boom and then
automatic captions do the work and then edit it.
[Video continues with captions]
[Clip within Video] Hey Y'all, Meryl Evans.
And copy and paste the script.
Boom let automatic captions do the work and then
[Video continues with captions]
[Meryl] Two points. First, did you notice the line
that the captions got shorter on the left
and then that the caption lines matter.
More on that shortly.
The point is, don't rely on YouTube to set the length.
The second point,
at the end when I selected to download the video
I could download the SRT, CTP or SBV.
SBV is YouTube caption format.
To add a video from YouTube or Vimeo to WordPress,
you copy the videos URL and paste
it into WordPress.
No need for caption file.
However, you might need the caption file for other things
such as posting videos on LinkedIn or Facebook.
Now this is what the SRT file I downloaded from
YouTube at the end of the video looks like.
SRT is short for Subrip Subtitles File. Linkedin,
YouTube, Facebook, Vimeo and many of the platforms
accept this. You'll see it has sequence number one,
two, three, four, five followed by a time column.
This video will show you how to. It's the first caption.
It shows up when the video hits the first time code
and it goes away when the video reaches the
second time code. Let's check out another format.
This is an example of WebVTT file. It's modeled
after SRT, but it takes captions a step further
by allowing you to format the text to choose the
positioning and other things. This is the same text
in the previous example except it follows VTT
formatting. No sequence numbers like the SRT
file, just the time code showing the start and
end time for each caption. Who wants to type
all that out? So what other ways can we create a
text file to add caption to a video? You have three
options for captioning will create the text file.
You can Do-it-Yourself with tools like I just did,
use the company that offer captioning services, or
find a tool that automatically captions the video
and edit those captions. A lot of people
ask how long it takes to capture the video?
You'll hate my answer. It depends. The
biggest factor is the length of the video
and how much audio it has. Simply put, the
longer the video and the more audio it has,
the longer it will take to caption it.
Let's quickly take a look at each one.
The list of captioning tools is long and these
are just a few examples um. The best captioning tool,
it depends on your processes and preferences.
Personally I use YouTube, because it has the
easiest user interface. Youtube also
has automatic captions, but I never
ever rely on auto craptions, as I call
them. They don't like my accent very much.
You know who creates the best caption? Humans
do. So thank you to the person captioning this right now.
Some of these captioning and
transcription services are 100% human. Some use
automated tools called ESR, automatic
pre-automated speech recognition.
And others may use the mix of artificial and human
intelligence. You submit your video to the service
and they'll send you the caption file. The output
and the turnaround time depends on the service.
I'm sorry for the curse word in the photo. I did
not say that word. It is auto craption's fault.
Of course the photo on the right has the correct
caption. The accuracy in automatic captioning
is not good enough. Oftentimes it has no
penetration and looks like one big blob of
text with incorrect words. The good news they are
more apt to help you add captioning. The bad news,
is they have caption formatting options that
you can't read or distract you from the video.
Captioning audio is only part of the formula.
For awesome captions, quality is the other half.
The reason why great captions are boring is because
they let the video be the star. They don't fight
for the spotlight. When it comes to posting
videos on WordPress, two things to keep in mind.
One is to have player control with the start
and stop button. No auto play please. Even I don't
like it. It creates a better user experience
when the user can play and stop the video.
The second part, is of course caption your video.
You can upload a video and caption file to WordPress,
but the markup is more involved than simply
paste in the URL of a video into WordPress. Besides,
your website service may have a file upload limit
and it may not be optimized for serving videos.
While it means, I have to depend on Youtube not
going down, it takes some stress off my website.
Most of you probably already know
this process. This will be quick.
These steps work with Vimeo and VideoPress.
Here's what it looks like in WordPress.
First, select YouTube for the block. Second, copy and
paste the YouTube URL into the WordPress editor
and ta dah. Vimeo works the same way. If
you enter the caption on YouTube or Vimeo
they'll show up on your WordPress website. If you
want to upload the video to the WordPress website
typically requires using either HTML or adding
open captions. Here is an example of HTML5
for adding a captioned video, kind which is
highlighted in gray. The first highlight
can be subtitles or captions. I use subtitles
here, so you can see it needs to have an SRC
or AMG for each language. I use ES which is
Spanish. You can also customize captions with CSS.
There is no one standard for great captions.
You'll find guidelines for caption quality
from the [unitelligible] and caption media program FCC,
WCAG POUR which stands for: Perceivable, Operable,
Understandable, Robust. I created the Caption10
best practices before I found these guidelines.
The Caption10 includes many of the list of these guidelines
and enhances them based on my experience.
If you're like me you learn from example, so here's
the number one rule of awesome captions and this
shows you why. One side contains great captions,
the other painful captions I have seen in video.
One thing to know, the right side that have many
different captions since the [unitelligible] is important,
but I wanted to show you actual examples of
what creators have used in their captions.
[Video plays with captions]
[Meryl] Readability has four components: size, colour,
background, which is the colour behind the text.
In fact, captions without a background are hard
to read. When I was looking for exercise videos, I
found captioned video from two companies. Peloton
won me over, because they were more readable.
The other one did not have a background. The next
will explains why I say autocraption.
[Video plays with captions]
[Meryl] Auto craptions are good for a few laughs, but
they're not so funny
when you're trying to watch a video.
I often quit watching videos when the captions aren't good.
It turned down many other viewers too.
They just write, any kind of craptions
are not better than no captions.
When you watch this next video cover up the
left side and see what happens.
[Video with captions]
[Meryl] How was that experience?
As I said, I can tell when the captions are out of sync,
even when I'm not wearing my bionic ear.
Yes size matters.
Here's why.
Cover up the left side if you dare.
[Video with captions]
[Meryl] Remember the YouTube video
where I was showing the line length and breaking points
are two areas I failed at in my early days
to start self-captioning,
because I let YouTube do it.
Bad idea, humans know best.
This has many factors and videos often
break this rule for any of these reasons.
More than one or two lines makes it hard
not to lose your place while reading,
and from one or two lines up to 32 characters
per line. As for alignment, the important thing
is to keep it consistent for the entire
video. Which position do you prefer,
top or bottom? In this one, you might want to hide
one side for about eight seconds and then look
the other side for the remainder. [Video with captions]
[Meryl] Don't worry your volume won't suddenly
stops working. This video has no sound
to show you the importance of sound.
The left side shows the correct way to do it.
The right side shows what happens
when you don't caption the sound.
[Video plays with captions with no sound]
[Video] This was a simple video to
show the importance of sound.
[Meryl] Noting that static or background music is so important. One episode of a TV show went on and on
without captions. I didn't have my bionic ear on,
so I was wondering if I was missing
a voiceover or a song. Don't leave humans wondering
if the captions are messed up.
At the start of a TV show when introducing the
stars, the caption and the chryon really overlap.
In fact, many shows move the caption up
temporarily and then bring them back down or
they move the chryon above the caption.
[Video with captions]
[Meryl] Now, let's take a look at what voice means
and why it matters.
I'm, going to turn off your sound for this one.
The caption will tell the story.
[Silent video with captions]
[Meryl] The next time that singer showed
up on America's Got Talent it was
terrible. This time they didn't
even caption in the voice changes.
You never want to confuse your viewers and
have them wondering who said that.
The quality of video clips is in the back.
The irony is I was trying to replace it with
the better quality video, but the
captions were terrible. Take a look.
[Video with captions]
[Meryl] The video showed
off three examples for identifying the speakers.
You can put captions under speakers when you use
open caption or VTT which allows you to control
positioning. Here's the last one of the caption 10.
First session is the live event like all
live events it uses just scrolling captions. That
can't be avoided, however, I think scrolling captions
in recorded videos that were not Pop-in, is easier
on the eyes, less detracting and most importantly
that people read at their own pace. These videos
are not in sync. It was a challenge to make this.
So the left is the Pop-in and the right is the
Scrolling. I'm turning the sound off for this one.
[Silent video plays with captions]
[Meryl] Accessibility should be reason enough to caption
videos. It's the right thing to do. Of course, that's
not enough for everyone and they're not all
required to comply with the law. Captioning is
cheap, definitely cheaper than a lawsuit. With other
tools available, it's easier and more affordable.
Captions expand your reach, boosted your
brand and company reputation and prevent lawsuits.
It's possible to profit off captions as Peloton
did when I became a member. Because it not only
had captions, but high quality captions. Looking here, I'm
talking about them spreading their name and brand.
What can we do to get captions to spread faster
than Covid19? If you see a captioned video
leave a comment thanking the creator for captions
and encourage them to use #Captioned to
help expand the videos reach or thank them if they
use the hashtag. Next time you post your video online
use #Captioned. It's a unique hashtag, because
it doesn't tell you the topic of the video, but
rather the video has captions. One of the biggest
values to captioning is not knowing what to do.
Share captioning how-to and resources and guidance.
Captions have changed my life. Captions let me know
what happened when I saw breaking news.
They let learn something new, they let me catch
more stories, whether it's on video or a video call.
It's only recently that I've ventured into the
world of video calls, thanks to captions. You can learn
more about that at meryl.net/calls. Feel free
to connect with me and send me your questions.
You can find everything and more at meryl.net/captions.
And I welcome any feedback on what could
be added removed or changed in this presentation.
Thank you for your time. I want to send a Texas style
thank you and yee haw to the WordPress
Accessibility Day team for having me, to the sponsors
you for making the event and human captions
possible and to the amazing captioner who
captioned this accent. Now let's hear from y'all.
[David] That was awesome. Meryl Evans did an amazing job. It's super incredible. We're gonna go to the questions
so I'll get the questions ready here for Meryl, and I'll read it out loud here: So I've heard you
present and mention Disney's Hamilton being so
impactful with their users or with their use
of captions, because traditional musicals may
not be as accessible as needed. Can you share
another development in captioning or technology
i.e voice to text on mobile phones, that has been
impactful for you?
[Meryl] Well the Hamilton's a big deal
for me, because I love that show and I love Broadway.
Believe it or not, even though I'm deaf, I love musicals
and I, I knew I would never be able to see Hamilton on stage, because it is so fast.
So I was so grateful when Disney decided to bring it sooner. As for another development in captioning with technology
I have to say the video calls that I mentioned, because before the pandemic I never did video call, because the couple
times I did it was a bad experience. Now I call my mom every week. I call a friend every week and I just run Ping meetings
a couple times a month. Actually, I
have one every week that I know.
Next question.
[David] Yes great uh. All right, so the next question is how do you uh, what I'm sorry:
What do you use when you have a lengthier dialogue for longer
videos. This can be costly.
[Meryl] Well my videos are never that long, because I,
I know people have too much on their plate.
There's so many great videos out there.
So I try to keep them short,
but it just depends on the resources
and what what you have.
I, I mean captioning those are just all getting
cheaper, one of them does a dollar a minute.
And I know that for a one person business, a video
just 50 minutes long is gonna cost $50
and that might be a bit much. So one way to do it,
is to try to do script and then you can copy
and paste the script. Oh, here's what you can do.
If you use transcription technology, use it to
caption your video. So let's say I have an app, I
record my video, I let the app listen to the video
and and get the transcript. Copy and paste that
transcript into YouTube and see how that works out.
[David] Awesome, next question: Can you recommend uh
learning resources for creating effective captions
for a beginner uh?
I want to make sure I can learn properly.
[Meryl] That's a great question.
I just recommend
unfortunately, I recommend you go to my meryl.net/captions, because I have a whole table of contents
at the beginning and it covers the 10 things we
just talked about. So you can go to where you need
to begin. I haven't seen any that stood out to me
in terms of teaching how, other than the resources
I've provided and links to other resources.
[David] All right, awesome. Next question: Is it better to use
closed captions or open caption?
Is there any reason to have both?
[Meryl} Excellent, excellent question.
I always recommend closed captions, because
it puts the viewer in control. For example, if I
don't like the font that they're showing I can
change it with closed captions. With open captions
you can't turn them off and on. You can't, if
if they're terrible, you can't fix it. It affects
the readability, but if you see some of my videos
on LinkedIn some of them have open captions only,
because LinkedIn has lost the caption file on some
of my videos. And for me that's worse than viewer
control, because I cannot have any of my videos not
have captions because I want to walk your talk. So
closed captioning is my first recommendation,
because it lets the viewer control the caption.
[David] Awesome answer. Next question: Who, what company
makes great caption videos that you really like
or they do really well?
[Meryl] Well that, I'm not not, no
one sticks out, you know. I mean, those captions you see on TV
shows are really well done, but that's how it's been done since 1983. There's a reason why captions haven't changed much,
because it works. You don't want them to distract them from the video. And as I mentioned earlier, Peloton,
see I'm mentioning them again, their name's getting out there and I chose them over the other brand,
because I could not read the other brand's captions.
[David] All right, awesome. Next question: What
is the most impactful place to start
if you're just at starting adding captions?
[Meryl] Guess my website, again. I'm sorry, but um so
I'll capture, um companies that do the
captioning they have resources, but I try not to be
biased. I don't like to mention one over the other,
because I don't want to have that connection, you
know. I try to be objective, but if you go to the
captions of the caption company, they have some good
resources and and a couple of them are on my guide.
[David] Awesome. Next question:
Any advice for captioning translated content?
[Meryl] Oooh that's a tough one. That's why closed captions, that's another advantage of closed captions, because it's very
easy for somebody to change the language on there. So uh I
think they start with, start with a closed captions
with the English file and then you can translate
it to Spanish. And I showed that HTML example,
so that's how you can offer examples, uh languages.
And also YouTube can handle multiple languages as well.
[David] Awesome. Next question, this is one
of my own, I have so many notes, but: If people
only remember one thing, what you, from what
you presented today, what should that be?
[Meryl] Caption everything, but seriously the second thing I would say is make sure your captions are readable.
If they're not readable, all that hard work you put into captioning your videos, goes to waste.
[David] Thank you, Meryl.